When you get the right part of the
S-curve, you get exponential unit
growth. If you have a very strong
business model, your earnings don't grow
linearly, they grow exponentially. You
know, the world doesn't think
exponentially. Very few people believe
you can accurately predict 2 3 4 years
out. But if you follow and understand
the Scurve and you you know the moes and
you know how to model, you really can uh
predict these these great things. the
enterprise AI or enterprise application
AI market is less than 1% penetrated and
we've never seen, you know, we talk
about S-curves, we call this an L curve,
just [music] straight up.
Alex, you were saying that your highest
conviction position is anthropic right
now. Can you tell the story of
discovering it, making the investment,
using this anecdote as an excuse to talk
about all the things that I think you
and I are mutually interested right now,
investors like you, investing in private
markets, anthropic, the business, AI,
everything. It's a great great way to
zoom in. Why is it your highest
conviction? And how did you get started?
>> Yeah. Well, when when the gun went off
with OpenAI chat GPT in November 2022,
we immediately took the firm and did a
massive deep dive with our 10 person
team. And we anytime you have a new
compute paradigm, there's a new stack
and on the and and that creates new
winners and losers on the old stack. And
in this stack, you know, it's now Jensen
talks a lot about it, but it's power at
the bottom, chips at the bottom, the
clouds, and then the foundational
models, and then the applications on
top. And at [snorts] that time, this was
2023 early, we said, we want to be in
the chips and the infrastructure first.
And not only do they get the uh demand
first, but we know who the winners are.
And no matter who wins above, which we
weren't sure at the time, we know we're
going to need tremendous amounts of
compute. And we did a deep dive into
that, which we can talk about later, but
over the next 2 or 3 years, we started
to get more clarity on how the
foundational model, the layer would
evolve. And at the time, two or three
years ago, there were 60 different
companies going after it. OpenAI was
kind of in the lead. And we did a
webinar in April 2023. We said, look,
this might be a winner take all. It
might be a total commodity because
there's open-source players. It might be
a race to zero or it might be an
oligopoly where there's three or four
leading players. And what we saw over
the following, you know, 3 years was
that almost all the startups
fell away and died. And then some of the
largest companies in the world including
Amazon and and Meta. Amazon really never
really showed up. We'll see what happens
with Meta, but they were they came in
strong and then basically their effort
faltered and they had to do a total
reboot. In the meantime, Anthropic kind
of was this dark horse candidate, the
startup and um they focused uh really
purely on the enterprise and OpenAI had
kind of won the consumer and then Gemini
can never be counted out. We we love
Google as well. It's one of our largest
positions. So it really started to look
like a three-horse race and somewhat of
an oligopoly
very similar to how the uh cloud market
evolved where three companies underpin
the entire SAS cloud world and and have
really excellent businesses and then we
also were aware of the open- source risk
um from China and we started to get
comfortable that the quality of the
tokens from the leading edge were
superior because if you're 80%
close to the top of the benchmarks going
from 80 to 85 is a huge unlock and the
um the open- source guys they don't have
as much compute so they can come close
to the leading edge but they can't
leapfrog it and then they kind of
falter. Meanwhile, the scaling laws and
other
means of improving the models, the
feedback loops, etc. Uh we saw that
there was a very strong runway and
everyone we talked to close to the
industry saw that the scaling laws would
continue. So we developed this thesis
that it would be a three-horse race. And
then the big kicker was code. And this
is the true unlock of AI. In the first
few years, we knew AI would would be
big, but we were skeptical. Also, we
made large investments because we knew
the training was would be there, but we
weren't sure how much revenue might come
and if it could truly replace labor
because if you remember the early
versions of the models were good, but it
there was a lot of uh some negative
feedback from corporates and could they
be truly agentic? We realized in 2025,
the first cloud code and and the coding
tools really began to explode and you
saw
the first gen was like Microsoft C-Pilot
which is like $20 a month and then and
then it started and that could sort of
improve your grammar of coding, maybe
find a bug, maybe make a block of code
like a paragraph and then Anthropic came
out sometime in in the middle of the
year and it could do so much more. Um,
and it started to get to this point
where it could run agentically and we
kind of saw that happening and the
coding market just exploded and then we
started hearing that people who could
use it unfettered. We heard we heard
that you know even within Anthropic at
that time people were spending $100 a
day on tokens which if you do the math
comes out to 20 or $30,000 a year. And
if you think about how many coders there
are in the world, 20 million, you've got
a half a trillion dollar market just
from coding alone. And mind you, that
was on 7 8 9 month old technology. We
could see just on the coding market
alone that Anthropic had a tremendous
opportunity ahead of it. So I think at
the time, this is pretty funny, we wrote
in our letter, you know, we made the
investment um at the 180 valuation. And
we said, and I think they were
hoping to get to a nine billion
>> one to nine. Yeah. And and then the
numbers were like nothing we'd ever seen
before. 100 to a billion on the way to
9. But when we did it in August of 2025,
we nobody had any idea what 2026
could be. the the the second big unlock
lately which is that you know claude
code has gone to almost completely
agentic um where you had Andre Carpathy
and Lionus Torvalds last year saying two
of the smartest people in coding and
they completely flip-fpped and Karpathy
said you know last year's code tools
could write 20%
and 80% would be handwritten that
flipped when the the latest model came
out and now he hasn't written a line of
code not except in English and not to
mention the pure unlocked that we're
going to get for the people that never
knew how to code. So just coding alone
has completely taken off. Anthropic has
been able to stay ahead in coding. And
so one difference between the cloud,
GCP, AWS, and the AI companies is the
cloud's generally it's commodity.
They're they're selling you servers and
storage. You know, they have a lot of
software on top and there is stickiness
to it. But in the AI models, everyone
thought it would be pure commodity. But
there's tremendous differentiation with
within. There's different training
methods and different skills that
they're good at. And a lot of people
have routers that switch in between,
which sort of makes it sound like
they're commodity, but anthropic,
they're very good for anything that has
to do with private equity and finance.
Google's very good for ingesting PDF.
And so there's a lot of like
differentiation critical IP, which is a
great competitive advantage.
and companies many companies have come
after the coding franchise and Anthropic
has been able to keep ahead.
The other thing that's good about the
foundational models and anthropic is
it's not just the API or the model.
They're building a whole monopoly or
whole ecosystem of products around the
API. So we've got the SDK claude for
co-work uh orchestration layer and and
all the tools and and they call it sort
of a harness which is the software
around the API that gets the most out of
the model. This was one of the things we
saw with AWS really early on in 2013 was
oh people thought it was a commodity
server up in a warehouse big deal and
what they they saw this was a new way of
do doing computing. So they had they
invented all these products that they
could see before everybody else that
slowly built lock in. The other way we
think about this is where are we on this
scurve and we have this infrastructure
layer scurve which [snorts] we think is
somewhat like 10% penetrated. And by the
way we think it's still uh one of the
best ways to play AI and we'll talk
about how that feeds back through. Um
but if you think about it, um even
though you know 200 or I don't know how
many 800 million people are using AI,
they're just using AI 1.0 which is like
a a search engine on steroids. But now
with these new primitives where you have
claw on your computer linking it in,
then you build skills. Companies are
going to build people and companies are
going to start building skills and then
they're going to build true AI bots and
then big corporations are going to build
much larger but where are we in terms of
the amount of people doing that? I mean
Sunder said it's 10 bips of the uh
knowledge workers the world. So
Anthropic has something like 14 or 15
million DAUs. Probably a small portion
of those are truly doing AI the way you
can do it. So that 10 bips, it's classic
Scurve where these are the tinkerers and
then [snorts] it's going to go to the
early adopters, then it's going to go to
the early mainstream. But you're going
to go from 10 bips to one to two or 3%
to 5%
to 15% in the next four years. And kind
of a light switch this year went off in
the enterprise where everybody realizes
they need to do this now and do it fast.
It's still
>> like internet 1.0 I know when it's like
you knew you needed a website in 1998
but it's like hard to build that website
but this is coming together fast and so
you know we think the I don't the
enterprise AI or enterprise application
AI market is is like less than 1%
penetrated and we've never seen you know
we talk about S-curves we call this an L
curve just straight up and then we'll
take this to the infrastructure
which is even we're at 10 basis points
of people really using AI and we're
already sold out of all the there's not
enough compute in the world. So
Anthropic has half of what they need
right now and that's before this huge
takeup. So Mark Andre said in the next
four years one thing he's sure of is
there's not going to be enough compute.
>> Most software companies try to maximize
your time on their app to juice
engagement. Ramp does the exact
opposite. RAMP understands that [music]
no one wants to spend hours filing
expense reports, reviewing expense
reports, and checking for policy
violations. So, they built their tools
to give that time back using AI to
automate 85% of expense reviews [music]
with 99% accuracy. And since RAMP saves
companies 5%, it's no wonder that
Shopify runs on RAM, Stripe runs on RAM,
and my [music] business does too. To see
what happens when you eliminate the busy
work, check out ramp.com/invest.
OpenAI, Cursor, Enthropic, Perplexity,
and Verscell all have something in
common. They all use work OS. And here's
why. [music] To achieve enterprise
adoption at scale, you have to deliver
on core capabilities like SSO, skim,
arbback, and audit logs. That's where
work OS comes in. Instead [music] of
spending months building these mission
critical capabilities yourself, you can
just use work OS APIs to gain all of
them on day zero. That's why so many of
the top AI teams you hear about already
run on work OS. Work OS is the fastest
way to become enterprise ready and stay
focused on what matters most, your
product. Visit works.com to get started.
Every investor should know about Rogo
because Rogo Aai's platform is not just
another generic chatbot. Instead, it was
designed to support how Wall Street
bankers and investors actually work.
From sourcing, diligence, and modeling
to turning analysis into deliverables.
For me, three key things differentiate
Robo. First, it connects directly to
your systems so it can work with your
actual data. Second, it understands your
workflows, how work really happens
across a deal or an investment. And
third, it runs end to end and produces
real outputs the [music] way the best
people do. Auditable spreadsheets,
investment memos, diligence materials,
and slide decks that match your
standards. This all comes [music] from
the fact that Rogo is built by finance
professionals for finance professionals.
And it's already being adopted by some
of the most [music] demanding
institutions in the world. To learn
more, visit rogo.ai/invest.
I'm so curious when an investor like you
who historically was a public markets
investor, you could hit buy and buy
whatever you want, is now operating in
lots of the most important private
market companies. We can talk about
Stripe or Data Bricks or OpenAI or
Anthropic. How do you get the positions
at the size that you want coming from
the legacy of been being able to just
buy? How much of it is um creativity
just directly with the company? If it is
directly with the company, so they have
it's a double opt-in. they have to
decide to let you in too. How do you do
that? Like what what have you learned
about getting the allocation you want or
the amount of equity you want in a
private company given that you know that
wasn't your original background?
>> In that case, you know, we we got to
know the company. One of our analysts
knew people in in the finance group
there and we actually we had a look at
the at the $60 billion round and we we
didn't do it. we didn't know the company
as well and [snorts] we um the gross
margins were negative and and and
frankly we hadn't seen coding explode
the way it had and and one thing about
public markets is you get to know
companies
over a long period of time and you can
kind of invest on your own schedule. I
got a chance to spend some time with
Daario. I obviously listen to on
podcasts and it I started to realize
these guys their management team is
excellent. the focus, the dedication,
they had almost no turnover, the quality
of code, and then the business plan was
really starting to play out. And uh it's
one thing to grow from, you know, 100 to
a billion, but it's another to do nine.
And then so we reached out to the
company as much as we could. They took a
meeting with us. We did a 90page
PowerPoint deck where we used Claude
Code to scour the internet for all the
feedback we could about the coding
market. and their and what their
products were good at, where they might
need to improve and we also did our
whole overview of what the coding market
would be. They welcomed us into this
round and then we stayed close with the
CFO and uh it's it's been great to build
a relationship with them and I think we
p punched above our weight in terms of
the allocation. So that one was a total
home run. In the rest of the the world,
we are in this period where the unicorn
market is bigger than most stock markets
in Europe, maybe even combined. It's
definitely bigger than Germany. It's
definitely bigger than the UK. And we
even before we invested in privates, the
first one was 2020. We meet with these,
we have to know these companies and you
really have to know them now because
sometimes they're the biggest companies
in the space and and have huge impact.
So we, you know, we do two to 3,000
face-to-face meetings with management
teams a year and about 10 or 15% of
those are with privates and then we kind
of focus in on the companies that we
really want to learn about and find ways
to meet with them and uh get involved in
their rounds. And our first one was
Stripe.
And we had a large investment at the
time. This is 20 2018 2017 1819 we and
2020 we own Audion which is a fantastic
payments company and they're a next-gen
cloud payments company taking from world
pay and you know the cloud the cloud
modern payments was 5% of total you know
$80 trillion market or what have you but
you can't invest in aud unless you know
Stripe like the back of your hand so we
did tremendous amounts of due diligence
talked to 200 customers in Audon but
when we asked about audio and we asked
about Stripe and we realized this is
Coke and Pepsi and um we said we got to
find a way to invest and I finally got
to meet the Coulson brothers in 2019 and
so that was our first one. We weren't
really known for privates. I've got a
friend um who's who has a involved with
a a venture firm that has tremendous
amounts and I talked to him about it and
I said let me know if you ever want to
sell some and then I get a call from him
during co in April
of 2020. We knew a lot about Stripe. We
didn't have the full financials, but we
knew enough that at that valuation, I
think it was 35 billion. We knew they
had they disclosed we had over half a
trillion of TPV. And we knew that
Audience's take rate was 25 or 30 bips
and we knew Stripes was 40 or 50. And we
knew how many employees they had. So, we
could kind of get at the profitability.
It turned out the take rate was higher.
It turned out they were being modest
about their TPV. It was much higher than
the 550. It was closer to the one 1
trillion. And you know, we underwrote
the thing under our assumptions and it
was much better. And then we were able
to upsize that from the seller to a $100
million block. Sometime they like it
that you know the VCs are going to own
and then most of them are going to sell.
They like it that we'll own and own in
the public market which we did with new
bank uh as well. all owned it for a long
period of time in the public market as
well.
>> Maybe now's the right time to lay out
everything you've ever learned about
S-curves. Obviously, your firm is sort
of predicated on this idea of technology
adoption life cycles
>> and investing in companies at the right
time amidst a certain platform change or
S-curve change.
>> And I think everyone knows the basic
idea of an S-curve and and the sort of
uh the stages you mentioned, tinkerers
and and early adopters and early
majority. But I'd love you to go into
the the super deep detail of what you've
learned since this is the lens through
which you've viewed markets and stocks
for a long time. Bring us into like the
nitty-gritty fine grading nuance detail
of why S-curves can be so useful for
investing. We have an investment
framework. It's
>> S-curve
and we'll dive into each one.
Competitive advantage and then
underappreciated earnings power. And
when you get the right part of the
S-curve, you get exponential unit
growth. If you have a very strong
business model, which in tech there's so
many of those for so many different
types of modes, uh your earnings don't
grow linearly, they grow exponentially.
And that's the last piece. Invest when
there's underappreciated long-term
earnings power. And very often the
earnings can grow from $1 to $10.50 to
20. And it happens way more than you
think. And it allows you to buy some of
the best companies in the world for
extremely low pees. When we were buying
Nvidia in 2023,
we were paying four times earnings. When
we bought Tesla in 2019 for the car
scurb, we were paying five times
earnings. When we were owning Apple, we
were paying four times earnings. When we
bought Amazon for AWS, we we were
getting it for free. And you know, the
world doesn't think exponentially.
and they're so focused on the next year,
the next quarter. Very few people
believe you can accurately predict two,
three, four years out. But if you follow
and understand the S-curve and you you
know the modes and you know how to
model, you really can uh predict these
these great things. So let's go to the
scurve. So the S-curve is crucial
because every technology follows this
pattern where it comes out,
you know, the I the smartphones were out
10 years before the iPhone. The internet
was out 20 years before Netscape. AI has
been out hidden inside of these
companies, but it wasn't until Chachi PT
took it public uh and ignited what it
was. So electric vehicles, Tesla went
public 15 years before 2019 when it went
vertical
it because there were so many barriers
to adoption. The first smartphones, you
know, they were clunky, they didn't have
touchscreen, not Apple, there wasn't a
wireless data system. And then uh and
they were too expensive. They were $500
or $600. Steve Jobs got the price to
200.
There was AT&T had a 3G network. It was
touchscreen. It was so easy your
grandmother could do it. So Annie built
an ecosystem and made it simple. So all
the barriers to adoption were eliminated
and then you rocket when those barriers
are removed. That's the tornado of
demand that everybody in the world knows
they need this right away. And so that's
the flip that happens. It happened with
electric vehicles. The price was too
high. Elon got the price to 40,000.
Range anxiety was there. he got the the
range to 300 miles. The supply chain was
was finally in place so he could churn
out millions of these things. So that
triggers the inflection. Now the other
nuance, it's not just, oh, it's taken
off now. It's how tall, how big is this
S-curve, how tall it is, so you know
when to sell, how long to hold on, cuz
we're underwriting out 2 or 3 years. We
have to know what the growth looks like
thereafter. [snorts] And these S-curves
can be dynamic. So when Amazon had AWS
and it [snorts] was a hidden line item
inside of Amazon covered by retail
internet analysts, not hardware chip, it
was a new business model, what have you.
But we realized the TAM for this, it was
the largest TAM in enterprise IT ever
because previously the TAM was routers,
memory, storage, Dell, EMC, but they
were doing it all. And so we figured
out, you want to know how tall the
S-curve is. So we figured out they were
addressing 600 billion of IT systems
directly addressing that. And then we
said it's probably going to be 50%
deflationary. Therefore, we're 1 or 2%
penetrated. But then over time, we
realized it it actually wasn't
deflationary. If you talk to anybody
now, they say if you build it yourself,
it's about the same price. So that means
the TAM was so much bigger. So there's
mega S-curves and there's subass curves.
You know, we've been lucky that we've
had, you know, internet 1.0,
uh, mobile, cloud, e-commerce,
and now AI, which we can confidently say
is the biggest and all these things
build upon one another. So, you know,
with with the electric vehicle S-curve,
you you you have to pay attention too
because, you know, at the time we we
thought probably maybe 40 to 50% of the
cars would go electric, but it did hit a
big wall at 10 or 15%.
Usually the S-curves go kind of all the
way. Um, but in this case, for a variety
of reasons, it didn't. So, you have to
adjust and you have to stay on top of
it. And generally you want to um when
something gets to sort of 30 40%
penetrated then you stop having
exponential growth which means the sell
side catches up and there's no longer
big beats
>> and is that when you sell typically
>> generally we like we like the high
growth and it was a mistake with Apple
because in the first five or six years
of Apple um it was awesome. I mean it
was our largest position. and it would
go up 50 70% a year um except for '08
and then we sold in 20 2012 when it got
to sort of 50% of the US had a
smartphone and with Apple you know they
maintained their leadership position it
had a couple years of underperformance
and then the multiple got low and they
added several ancillary things and then
they al also got to play in the uh the
application because they get 30% % of
the app. So they were able to compound
very nicely, say 20%, but the the big
years were in the 50, you know, the the
0 to 50% part of the curve.
>> I'm so fascinated by this uh you know,
sometimes decade plus long flatline at
the beginning of one of these curves,
which makes me wonder what you've
learned about the right moment to buy or
even start paying attention before you
buy.
>> How do you measure that? Is it always
different? What are the pitfalls that
you've fallen into? How do you know when
when to we talked about when to sell,
but how do you know kind of when to
start thinking about buying in one of
these things?
>> Yeah. And you know, Andy Grove says sort
of when you have strategic inflection
points, you can't trust the data. And
and strategic inflection points are
about intuition, anecdotal evidence. I
love this book called The Towel Jones
Averages, a guide to whole investing,
which is rightrain and leftrain. And the
best investors have the right the
creative side where they it's visual.
It's connecting the dots. Um you know we
invested in the mobile video game
S-curve for so long. Mobile video games
were just the screens were small on the
phones and the processing power wasn't
good. So you had all these uh casual
games. But then I was in China and I saw
this little 12-year-old boy with a huge
phone and he was like playing a awesome
video game. I'm like oh my god it's now
coming to the phone. So, it's visual.
Um, enterprise is hard cuz you can't see
it. We go to the Gartner IT Symposium.
30,000
American CIOS go there and like we saw
this happen with Splunk where that used
to be an amazing database company and
like their their room where they were
explaining was like standing room only
or we saw that with VMware you know I'm
talking like 30 years ago where they
virtualized the server and like there
was standing room only and you could
just see the corporate demand just
beginning and with AWS
We went there and the grand ballroom was
completely packed and that was at nine
o'clock and at 10 o'clock the grand
ballroom was completely packed 11:00. So
you could you could actually see the
demand exploding before it happened. So
um we look for for all kinds of clues
and there's a whole pattern recognition
that happens. And by the way it's okay
to be late. It's okay to miss the first
one, two, three years in a lot of cases
because if the top of the S-curve is
half a trillion, um the growth can go on
for a long time. So, you don't always
have to be right there. It's okay to
miss the first 100%. Peter Lynch, I
started at Fidelity and he loved to
mentor the young kids. So, I got some
time with him. He said, "Wite out the
chart.
It's all about the future." Um, and so
it's okay to miss, but but what helps
about the S-curve is is sort of how long
it goes for. Then there's sort of the
the slope of the Scurve, which is
important. And a lot of people think cuz
we're in a modern world, everything's so
fast, but there's a lot of factors that
determine the pace of the adoption. And
we we um commissioned this gentleman,
Horus Du used to work with Clayton
Christensen, to go look in history. And
we have the big S-curves on our wall
over the last 100 years. And the radio
Scurve is one of the fastest ever. It
took 7 years to reach like 100%
penetration. But the dishwasher Scurve
is like that because it needs to be
plugged into the back end.
>> What are some Yeah. What else did you
learn? That's fascinating. What else did
you learn?
>> So like the B2B stuff can take a long
time because it needs to be plugged into
the existing systems. It's like it's got
to be put
>> the dishwasher
>> inside the house and then um and
consumers generally tend to go a lot
faster. Um
>> I love that the radio and the
dishwasher, the two models for adoption.
>> Yeah. And and I I covered internet of
fidelity. I c, you know, my first stock
was Amazon. That's a whole other story
which is a lot of fun. But I also did
B2B internet and you know there was a
whole huge bullcase on that. But the
basically the underlying infrastructure
wasn't in place for B2B to happen.
Ultimately happened 20 years later with
SAS. And so that is a risk with AI in
that you know these big companies are
very security conscious. Uh they're can
be slow to move. There's a lot of
cultural issues with a with AI where you
know you really need a few evangelists
to push it through and the top
management needs to push it through but
then the IT's saying this is this is
risky and that happened with cloud too
that was one of the big things with
cloud where it was too it was everybody
was afraid it's unsecure to have your
data in the cloud and then we saw the
CIA do it and we saw Capital One and we
talked to the Capital One CIO we that
it's more secure in the cloud and then
it really started to take off. But but
those takeoffs
maybe because SAS is like the dishwasher
and because cloud is like the dish it's
got to be plugged in
it it meant that yeah it was growing but
it was sort of a 30 to 40 maybe a 50%
growth rate but what's amazing about AI
is you just at least with consumers or
even business you just open up
>> the browser and it's there
>> and so that's why we're getting this
straight up
>> and I think there's enough runway in the
me in the near term going from 10 bits
of people really using it to two to five
or whatever which is going to cause it
to keep on going straight up. So this we
this we call it a backwards L curve. Um
so it's really pretty exciting.
>> What have you learned about uh when the
group that ends up being the leaders
separates itself from one of these
competitive packs? So you're talking
there mostly about overall growth of the
S-curve and demand. There's always
multiple players fighting for it. You
know, you've invested, it seems like you
kind of invest after someone has
separated themselves from the pack, not
try to pick the winners from the pack.
Is that is that like roughly?
>> Well,
>> correct?
>> Well, we're definitely So, you look for
the S-curve, then we do an exhaustive
study of everybody with exposure in that
area and try and find the one with a
very powerful competitive advantage. And
a lot of people didn't like tech. Warren
Buffett didn't like tech because he
couldn't predict the future too fast.
Yeah. And so the Scurve is our map for
looking in the future. Now a lot of
people were worried about tech because
they thought there was so much
disruption you could never trust a
company to be a longived asset. And
[snorts]
what we've found over the years is some
of the competitive advantages
within the digital world are more
powerful, if not equally or more
powerful than than in the offline world.
You've got the network effect that was
so powerful for LinkedIn, Facebook,
Alibaba, you name it. Then you can
become an industry standard. Oracle and
Bloomberg are the industry standard.
Oracle, you know, they charge a lot and,
you know, there's free versions, there's
open- source Oracle, but they had all
the database administrators. They they
had all the software that was tuned to
work with them. So, they they basically
had a chokeold on the relational
database market forever.
um you can get to scale very quickly
because these scurves grow and all of a
sudden Anthropic is doing 90 30 billion
in sales or Amazon you know had so much
scale and they got it quickly. So they
got a Walmart size scale advantage in 5
years versus 40 years for Walmart. So
you can have network effects scale you
can become industry standard. You can be
a platform that people build on top of.
You can have critical intellectual
property, which was what Qualcomm had.
You couldn't make a phone without paying
them, or ASML has critical intellectual
property. You can't make a chip without
their lithography. And I think what's
interesting is maybe these AI
foundational companies, you know,
they've got scale. Oh, you can also have
brand. And brand's very important
because Google, Amazon, they got to
grow. They never had to advertise.
Elon's never had to advertise for
anything. and cost to acquire versus
lifetime. It's the whole business model.
And so almost all the companies I
mentioned have Apple, they have all of
these rolled into one. Um, so we can
sometimes we can notice these things
before the rest of the world. And one of
our high points was we pitched Amazon
for AWS at 2013 at the Robin Hood
investors conference and we said the
bulls have no idea what they're sitting
on. Amazon's won the war but before it
even started and at that time we said
there's Coke and there's no Pepsi. Did
turn out there was Pepsi but it was big
enough to last. And we could see they
had a seven-year lead. So first mover is
important. Then they became a whole
ecosystem and a platform. Then they got
scale. So they were 10 times the size of
everybody else. Nobody could invest in
the R&D to to catch them. So um but
you're right that if you don't have a
competitive advantage, you can be in the
best S-curve of all time
>> and still lose out.
>> But if your name was Rim, Palm, Nokia,
HC, LG, Motorola, I can go on forever. 0
negative negative negative negative. And
that's what we saw at the foundational
model layer where there's like 50
companies trying to do that and they all
have fallen away and two or three have
emerged at the top and there's a lot of
reasons to think they will continue to
hold their position.
>> So to take Google's a little trickier
because they have this other huge
massive complex business attached to the
Gemini business. But if you take
anthropic and open AI as pure plays and
you dig through those and you reason
through their competitive advantages,
why aren't they susceptible to erosion
of those things in the fullness of time?
>> Yeah. Of all the S-curves we've we've
done, [snorts] AI is by far the most
complex and the fastest changing. So it
can be we have to keep in mind that
there are risks
but also the rewards are the highest cuz
we're talking about a market in the
trillions. You know we we just said
cloud you know maybe cloud's 800
billion. This might be you know we now
think 3 to five but there's higher risk
higher reward. But let's just say with
anthropic now they have it looks like
they have critical intellectual property
generally they've been able to maintain
their their high market share and code.
Number two is uh they've built a a
strong brand for enterprise to where go
talk to any CIO and they'll just the
first thing they'll say is claude.
They're going to have escape velocity
and scale. And what was scary for OpenAI
and Anthropic fighting these big
companies like Google was they had these
huge cash cows. And to both of the
management teams credited Open and
Anthropic, they were able to
work in these super capital intensive
industries and find ways to raise
capital. And certainly with Anthropic,
with their 10x sales growth, it looks
like and their fundraising ability, it
looks like they've reached escape
velocity. So now they have scale.
And the other thing that Anthropic and
OpenAI could have is Anthropic now that
they're leading in code, they set that
code back onto their model and it's this
concept of the recursive improvement.
And if you look at the pace of their
innovation, it's accelerating.
>> Um, and so maybe they can have this
liftoff stage. you know, Open AI has,
you know, they they were focused on so
many different other sectors, but
they're starting to do better in
enterprise and their coding tools good
and they're starting to see accelerating
growth on that side. And then look, the
consumer franchise,
it it looks like enterprise right now is
much better because you're, you know,
you and I, we're willing to pay a lot
because it's replacing human beings. you
know, consumer, maybe you can get
advertising, but maybe they would pay
for a a clawbot type assistant if you
could make that perfectly well for them.
Um, but they have gazillion eyeballs
there. But you're right, things do
shift, but it usually on the we have
this
charts that we almost do for all of our
pitches. On the internet, the leader
goes bigger, faster, and wins. And it's
it's it's happened you know most of the
time the leader gets it. Shopify becomes
the leader. It just keeps on going.
Amazon the leader keeps on going. SAS
company XYZ just you get the lead. It
compounds on internet company compounds
on itself. And and another thing is you
need to be big. Another is scale. You
need the compute and you got to pay for
the compute because so there's only so
many people that can do that. So that
those are some of the modes that we
think are now showing up. Now there are
some exceptions to that rule. usually
with the paradigm shifts AOL and then
dialup went to broadband and and they
didn't make make the change. You know,
Netscape came out early and it wasn't as
strong of a business model. But I think
if you talk to anyone in the valley or
any startups, you know, they'll tell you
that they're building on top of these
three and the world's a huge place and
the economy is a huge place that that
they'll be able to differentiate within
those. I'm so curious then what you
think all of this means for software. Um
when I look through your portfolio, I
don't see a ton of uh big software
companies, enterprise software
companies. I I don't know if you once
had them and sold them or or how you
thought about it, but it's hard to have
the experience of building really
useful, cool little tools, even if
they're still toys, and not have the
thought of, wow, you know, like if I
spend enough time on this, even if I'm
not technical, maybe I could build a,
you know, an ERP equivalent replacement
or something for my company. There
[snorts] doesn't seem to be a
fundamental reason why that's not
possible and and then those companies
could be in lots of trouble. Seems like
everyone has a a strong view on this one
way or the other. I'm curious how you've
approached those sorts of companies
given that you don't seem to own a ton
of them.
>> We were at certain points maybe 5 years
ago, we might have had 40 or 50% of our
portfolio in software. And early on in
in our April 2023
seminar, we said definitely invest in
chips first and and we said but at the
application layer initially we thought
[snorts] these companies are huge. They
have huge sales forces. They can take
these AI APIs and and build products and
they have the data. This is going to be
amazing for software.
And pretty quickly we realized their AI
products were not very good. They
weren't moving the needle. Nobody could
charge for them. We basically sold
almost all of our software, almost all
of our application software. We still
have one or two small ones, but entering
this year, we were actually net net
short. And uh it really helped us in the
first quarter. There's so many layers.
The old way of software is like using a
pen and paper or it's like a horse and
buggy. The new way of software is like a
jet engine or frankly like the
transporter from Star Trek. It's so
revolutionary changing that it feels
like it has to be disruptive
now.
even if it's not disruptive now or right
away. Uh so the software companies have
another problem which is
their list on the to-do list or priority
list of any CIO has fallen a lot. So
even if AI is not going to be
disruptive, they're spending it on
anthropic tokens because there's faster
ROI there. Um, second,
um, if they're spending all that money
over there, it pushes on the budget, so
that hurts them. Third, a lot of
software companies were able to raise
price every year. Um, [clears throat]
and now they're probably nervous about
doing that. Then fourth, we'll see what
happens with jobs cuz I don't, you know,
there's smart people on both sides of
that, but we are seeing some companies
really gut their jobs or whatever,
>> freeze hiring and so that hurts on
seats. Maybe in terms of them building
their own apps, maybe it just um
>> you know, if you want to be optimistic,
it's it's taken them a while to do that.
We talked about how early the primitives
of AR are. So maybe they have just taken
a while to get to something they can
commercialize, but
you know, they might not have the right
people. They might not know it's a
different selling motion from selling a
fixed system versus, you know, if you're
installing something that does human
work, you got to be right at the side to
make sure it's really getting done. So
you need the FDE
for deployed engineers and they might
not have the right people internally to
do that. Then of course there's the the
risk of you can build it yourself. The
bulls will say, well, they're never
going to build their own ERP system. And
that's probably right. And it is true
that technology, old tech is very
sticky. Like mobile video games didn't
hurt console games and uh the tablet
didn't hurt the PC and the smartphone
didn't hurt the PC and uh there's a lot
of integrations and work that goes into
these software. So that's all true and
companies do like to buy from they don't
like to build themselves that much. So
that's all true but you can't imagine a
world where in 1 2 3 4 5 years um you
could have a brand new AI native company
going after each one of these very
strong incumbents and it might their
data advantage could get obiated. it
might be easy to take it out and put the
new one in with AI and such. So, what's
good if you like so is the valuations
are very high and everybody knows
they're under pressure. Some people are
tempted to buy these, but the AI um
coding tools are just getting better and
better. So, we'll we'll have to wait and
see. And we're we're watching these
software companies very closely to see
if they're getting any revenue that can
change that trajectory. But it's hard
because if you're a company like
Salesforce, you've got 40 billion in
sales
and now you you might have 500 of ARR
700 of AR of AI. So you've got this huge
base. Now maybe this starts to work but
it takes a while. And in software
there's the rule of 40 which is your
growth rate plus your operating margin.
And if you've got a 20% growth rate and
20% that's good. For AI, we have a new
kind of rule of 40. We call it well,
it's really for chip investing. But if
what percent of your sales are AI, say
30%, and what's your market share in
that category? Say 30%. You'd be 60.
That's a great place to look because
you've got exposure and you've got a
strong market position. Problem with
software is their AI is 1 or 2% at this
stage and it's a long way to go. Um, one
thing we are picking up though now
lately and this is halfbaked, but AI
could make some of these software
platforms more important because what's
the first thing you do with claude? You
plug it into Slack. If that can become a
key repository, that will make Slack a
permanent fixture within the
organization. And so maybe these agents,
maybe the next wave of AI will be these
agents that use tools and they might
operate inside of the existing incumbent
software tools to use them like a human
being would.
>> Just to pull in that thread, uh it seems
like the commonality of the tools they
might use that are the most sticky would
be network-based tools. Uh so Slack is a
great obviously a great example of the
software in Slack itself is I don't know
leaves something to be desired. It's not
the software is not the special part.
It's that everyone is there,
>> right? But I'm curious yeah what kinds
of things you would want. Is it just
network you know the presence of a
network effect? Is that the only thing
that really matters?
>> It's still early in our thinking here
but I don't know even even even maybe
you know workday or the HR systems or um
the big systems of record
you know the agents may be running on
top of on top of them. CRM is going
headless or they're making a headless
version and that's sort of the bare case
too that you get relegated to just being
a database but you know there's a human
interface to it then they need to make
the AI interface which is no interface
it's just them going right into the data
and so you know you lose that customer
interaction but if if the
agents are going right to right to CRM
and doing the work inside of CRM M that
that will solidify CRM so you won't have
to think it's going away.
>> Can we talk about chips? You've
referenced them a few times.
>> Inf infrastructure chips, you know,
everything around the data center maybe.
I don't know how you conceive of it.
>> Why is this so interesting to you? I
love the the modified rule of 40 for
percentage that's AI and percentage
market share in the category. That's an
interesting stat.
>> What companies shine on that today? What
are what are lagards, you know, that are
surprising? For the past 40 years,
nothing has changed in the data center.
Even with cloud, we're basically Intel
x86.
It became the data center chip sometime
in the '9s. And um and compute grew in
the cloud era and it grew compute
workloads grow you know 25 to 40% every
year but Moore's law is improving at
that rate.
So it didn't require tremendous
innovation
and there really was almost no growth in
hardware for years and years and years
and the whole industry basically
commoditized every part every chip every
part of the server the printed circuit
board to the memory to the enclosures to
the networking
you know there was no innovation
you would go from one gig to 10 gig
That would take 7 years. And when you do
switch in the first year, it does take
some innovation to get to 10 gig and
would create a little cycle, but then it
would commoditize.
And now you go to AI and
the workloads are growing 10x every year
and they're pushing every single aspect
of this hardware to the physical limits
of what it can do. And so, not only are
you creating tremendous unit growth, but
the industry, we call it the
decommoditization of the hardware
industry. And I I met with Shawn Maguire
like 3 years ago, and he said, "I wish I
could come back and be a a hardware
hedge fund because all the companies are
public and they all have powerful IP."
And Sequoia made some of their best
investments back in the hardware day
with Apple and Cisco and others. And
we're in this renaissance of chips. So
not only do you have tremendous unit
growth,
but you it's requiring tremendous
innovation and what that means, you
know, at every aspect of the server. And
so you know memory which used to be a
pure commodity, this high bandwidth
memory is stacked 10 chips on top. you
know the input outputs are 10x what they
were before like took Samsung for years
to do it and it's a critical critical
piece and then that is constantly
upgrading so they're on the same you
know they've got to be working with
Nvidia for three or four generations in
advance we we had this with Celestica
Celestica
was a contract manufacturer and this has
been a disaster industry since 1999. It
went all offshore to China. It was
commodity, but they hung on and they
they kind of kept
Celestica's heritage was IBM
supercomputing and they kept all that
talent and skill. [snorts] And then we
noticed they were the sole supplier of
the Google TPU server. We're [snorts]
like, "Oh my god, this was like three
years ago. The stock was trading at
eight times earnings." And they had this
whole and then they also had this whole
business of selling Ethernet white box
which is code word for commodity white
box Ethernet switches into the clouds.
It it turns out that these are excellent
businesses. Not only do they have
tremendous growth, but to do an AI uh
server computer, it's it's liquid
cooled. It's running so much hotter and
you know it's two or $300,000
piece of machinery whereas an old server
was $5,000. If it breaks you just throw
it away. If this thing breaks the whole
thing goes down. So you become like
critical infrastructure like selling a
critical part on a plane. You'll never
get swapped out. And then they they it
turned out they were quite good at
liquid cooling and you know a lot of
other people tried to do it and failed
and so they've retained that position.
Then it also turned out that the
Ethernet market was because you were in
the old days you would go from 100 gig
to 400 to 800. It would be a 7-year
cycle to upgrade. Now they're upgrading
every year and that's really hard to do.
Then there's a whole software layer, the
open source sonic layer. The the guys at
at Celestica invented were some of the
people that wrote that open- source
software. They work very closely with
Broadcom. So what we thought was just a
great growth driver turned out to be
great competitive advantages and they
have like 50 60% share of the cloud
Ethernet switch market which is a
crucial market for um AI because AI is
incredibly network intensive. And then
even something like the printed circuit
board. I mean a regular server you need
10 layers. These AI servers you need a
40 layer and there's very few PCB
suppliers that can make this. And um
there's all kinds of complexities in
there. And we also own Elite Materials
which makes the leading ingredient which
is copper clad laminate which goes into
these boards. And so the PCB
uh units are growing, the layer counts
are rising. So you've got like a
50 to 60% keer just in the units and
then the ASPs are rising and then the
gross profits are rising and your
visibility which used to be hey we'll
call you next week if we need you to
like hey we need you for the next four
years to be like designing this road map
with us. So you've you've gone from a 5%
grow or low margin to you know a 35% 40
50 topline kager for the next four years
with rising margins
and then on top of that there's
shortages of everything. So even if it
is a commodity it's going to be a great
cycle. So we see that up and down the
supply chain. You find these companies
like Corning like they make the fiber.
Um they've got some ridiculously high
share of the fiber. I was reading this
uh Microsoft
data center they just built. There's
enough fiber to circle the world four
and a half times in that one thing.
And their fiber is thinner and more
bendable and can be specially
manufactured to the exact specs. and
it's higher margin and it's the fastest
growing part of their business. And then
they're doing, you know, in networking
there's scale out which is kind of
connecting all the server racks
together. Then there's scale across
which is connecting the data centers
together. And when you want to build one
of these huge clusters and you can't get
all the power in one place for training,
you want to wire them together. But the
wires you need like 10x the wire has to
be so much thicker. So that's creating
huge growth. And where the real kicker
comes in is when you do scale up. That's
connecting every GPU in the rack to the
other ones. That's done over copper.
Eventually that'll be done over fiber.
when that happens that two to three X's
Corning's opportunity. So you just have
at every layer of of the rack,
>> everyone's overwhelmed.
>> Everyone's overwhelmed. But the story
like in the power supplies, every Nvidia
chip or rack uses
n 50 to 125% more power. And like
literally that drives the ASPs of Delta
and Advanced Energy. I just I think it's
it's I can't believe these stories when
I hear I'm like wait so your ASPs are
going to like go up 40% for the next
four years in a row and it's higher
margin. The broader picture is like
we're going to be the AI demand if we're
right with this L curve. We're already
short, you know, the DRAM market, the
NAN market, the PCB. We're already like
30, we're 30% short all these things as
we are now.
>> As your business scales up, everything
gets more complex, especially your
compliance and security needs. With so
many tools offering band-aids and
patches, it's unfortunately far too easy
for something to slip through the
cracks. Fortunately, Vanta is a powerful
tool [music] designed to simplify and
automate your security work and deliver
a single source of truth for compliance
and risk. There's a reason that Ramp,
Cursor, and Snowflake all [music] use
Vanta. It frees them to focus on
building amazing differentiated
products, knowing that compliance and
security are under control. Invest like
the best listeners get a special offer
of $1,000 off Vanta when you go to
vanta.com/invest.
I know firsthand how complex the tech
stack is for asset management firms. And
seemingly every new tool and data source
makes the problem even worse, adding
more complexity, more headcount, [music]
and more risk. Ridgeline offers a better
way forward. One unified platform that
automates away that complexity across
portfolio accounting, reconciliation,
reporting, [music] trading, compliance,
and more, all at scale. Ridgeline is
revolutionizing investment management,
helping ambitious [music] firms scale
faster, operate smarter, and stay ahead
of the curve. See what Ridgeline can
unlock for your firm. Schedule a demo at
ridgeline.ai. [music]
>> The measure of percent AI, percent
market share. Do you care more about the
absolute or the rate of change of those
metrics?
>> It's good because I took we did this
presentation in two 2024 where we
actually listed everybody's market share
and everybody's and then I I asked
Claude to plot plot it to a thing and it
actually didn't get it right because
what it didn't get is the rate of
change. So the rate of change is
important and that's incredible too
because you go from 10% to 30% and your
growth rate accelerates and your margins
accelerate. So rate of change is very
important.
>> Why don't more people get this right in
public markets? Like if your whole
framework is S-curve, competitive
advantage, underappreciated earnings
power. It feels like the movie's been
played out a lot over the last 25, 30
years.
>> My mom said, "Why do you tell everyone
your secret? [laughter]
It's like it's why does the casino teach
people how to play blackjack? It it's
harder. It's really hard to do. It's
it's you have to have a a deep you have
to be comfortable investing. You know,
we've been doing I've been doing tech
for 20 years at Whale Rock. We've got a
team that's been doing this, covered
many cycles. We know the different. So,
very few people, no one's paid attention
to hardware and chips at all. So, you've
got all these newbies coming into it.
>> You and Gavin, that's it. and Gavin's
done a great job. people weren't
comfortable with it and it's it's harder
to do than it seems and the chart you
know a lot of these companies their
charts are up so it's scary can I buy
and then you also have to have the
holistic view because if you don't have
conviction so every you know every time
with Nvidia over the last four years
it's like oh they had a great year oh my
god it's got to be a bubble and then
they had another great year and it's
like 6 months of marking time it's got
to be a bubble this is like getting out
of hand this is pretty scary like and
the the bare cases are not like totally
without merit but if you can see the
whole picture and understand how these
things are unfolding and gain conviction
in that frankly if you're just a semi-
analyst so many semi analysts missed it
because they didn't see what was really
happening at the foundational model
layer so it helps to have have the big
picture it helps to have you know
decades and scores of scurves that
you're looking at and and where it plays
in different things.
>> What what in this whole picture, you
know, I would describe your your stance
so far in the first hour discussion as
like very bullish on on the impact that
AI is going to have and the returns
available as a result. What makes you
the most concerned or uncertain or is it
just the rate at which all this stuff
changes and like what keeps you worried
amidst what seems like pretty extreme
bullishness? I mean, one thing that
bothers me is there's a lot of
negativity in the general population
about AI and there's a lot of negativity
in some aspects of the government. You
know, I think Maine just banned data
centers and
80 only 20% of the people are optimistic
about AI and potential for negative
regulation. But I do think kind of the
genie is out of the bottle. Another risk
is that if AI sort of slows down in its
improvements, I think there's a whole
lot of AI adoption to happen even if the
models didn't improve. But Jensen said
this, you know, years ago when he was
talking about his GP crap, just the
graphics chips. If good enough is good
enough, I won't have a business. Now
every year he made the graphics a little
bit better and people always wanted the
best in AI. If anthropics sort of hits a
wall and stops improving or open AI then
the open source models will catch up and
um and then it might be a race to the
bottom and it might be you know it won't
be good for the stocks probably. It
could be good for the chip companies.
chip companies don't care
>> who's winning tokens, right?
>> Who wins.
>> So, that's another positive and they'll
benefit if if open source, you know,
Jensen really wants open source to like
take off. It's all he kept on mentioning
at at his last GTC. So, that could be a
risk. Another thing is if one or two of
the players falters and loses its
position and can't compete, that could
be like a lot of compute that they don't
need in the future. Now, if AI is so
big, somebody else will suck that up.
And we saw that with, you know, Oracle
cancelled a big deal and then Meta went
right in. But let's just say Meta
decided not to be involved
with AI. Hey, we can't keep up. It's
just going to be a waste of our
resources. So, we we watch that very
carefully and um in general, we see
more, you know, more more companies
truly going after this and even
Microsoft going trying to build their
own. So I think those are those are some
of the key risks.
>> Seems like you really have done very
little in the application layer of AI.
Historically the apps ended up being
most of the market cap you know not not
the infrastructure and there wasn't
really a model layer in the past. I
guess you could say it was the clouds or
something.
>> Yeah.
>> Why focus so much on the bottom layers
of Jensen's five layer cake versus
things in the application layer that are
actually getting used by consumers?
Well, we do, you know, part of OpenAI is
they have chatbt which which is an
application, but we think the
application layer well a it always comes
later. So, you know, the first three or
four years of the iPhone and then the
applications really took time. So, maybe
it's just starting. Um but to date um we
found that area to be pretty risky
because where does the where does the
foundational model end and where does
the application begin and can can the
applications build enough of a moat um
where they can fend off and um and build
and build businesses in that. and um and
we we thought we would see it in some of
the incumbents like a a CRM and they're
starting and maybe just a matter of time
but we really haven't seen it in the
enterprise world and there there are
some you know very good
startup application companies out there
but the ecosystem is not clear you know
like when we started the ecosystem and
chips was clear when we started the
foundational model ecosystem wasn't
clear now it's clearer to us and at the
application layer it's still kind of
unclear and a little bit dangerous
because um but there will be great
application companies built you know we
really were watching Brett Taylor at
Sierra Brett was CEO of CRM he wrote
Google Maps he was CIO of Facebook and
uh he he's building this fantastic
company called Sierra we're not involved
but that's where the rubber hits the
road will he be able to turn this into a
huge company and he's doing quite well.
We'll see. It's a matter of timing when
these things really start to to to come
in into their own and prove they're
sustainable. It usually doesn't start in
the first 3 or 4 years. It comes a
little bit later.
>> At your office, you have this this giant
uh award wall for the research. I can't
remember what it's exactly. It's for the
best research job or project of the year
given to an analyst. And I think you won
it. you gave it self awarded in their
own when you're by yourself, but you've
got this now long 20 year history of a
year one or one or more people, you
know, put their name on this wall for
having done the best job on a research
project that year. I'm so curious about
the nature of that research and how it's
changing as a result of all of this.
Say, you know, the person that's going
to win the award this year and the sort
of work that that requires a human to do
when so much of the work that probably
would have won you the award in, I don't
know, 2009 or something could probably
be fully automated or done in an hour
with cloud code or something today. How
is the nature of research and what gets
you on that whale rock award wall
changing in real time? I would like to
say that we're so advanced in our AI
systems that it's a huge change so far.
I mean, it's it's helping us get up to
speed and we have a handful of of great
apps, but it's not yet it's not
supplanting the job of the analysts. And
so much of what we're doing is we're
meeting with as many companies as
humanly possible. We're developing
relationships with with the management
teams that we cover. We're talking to
the competitors. The system we use is
right out of common stocks and uncommon
profits which was written by Philip Fish
Fischer in the 1950s. And it's the
scuttlebutt approach. It's growth
investing. It's it's get out there and
talk to suppliers, uh, customers,
competitors, looking for the key
characteristics of these leading
companies and really developing
conviction in them. Now, if it's a new
complicated area like ABF substrates or
PCBs, we're able to get up to speed on
those things quickly, but it can't pick
stocks for you in any kind of a way. I
will say that, you know, if you're an
analyst who's good at the blocking and
tackling and there's a role for that,
but that role is you need to have
obviously the insight on top. So, we're
now like using AI to write notes uh or
you know review the quarter or and those
notes are much better but there better
be a really good paragraph on top which
is the wisdom. What does this mean? How
does this deal with our thesis? Um what
changed? You know, don't just be a
reporter. Um so the AI can be a great
reporter. It can't it can't quite pick
into the future. And like the job that
the guys did on app 111 two years ago. I
mean I think we got two of the best adte
guys around and they you know they
convinced me to buy I knew adte I
started actually nearby here in New York
at at that internet advertising startup
and after I did banking.
So I knew internet advertising and ad
tech which is historically a terrible
industry. Um, but Michael and Sam really
figured out the Apploven story like
before anybody and they followed it when
it was private. They know all the
competitors. They know all the
intricacies of, you know, there's all
this terminology and um they, you know,
Sam went to the Las Vegas app
advertising conference and we went to
con and, you know, we talked to scores
and scores of of people. So um and they
did the work on the model and developed
a great relationship with Adam Ferogi.
He's one of the best managers out there.
And um I don't see AI doing that.
>> What role does talking to other
investors outside of your firm play in
your life? Like
>> I one of the great things is just the
friendships I've built with so many
smart investors
and and frankly Philip Fischer said part
of his process was like get to know a
good 10 or 15 like-minded people around
the country and share ideas and um
and a you know they're great great
friends to make a lot of them have been
on your podcasts and uh and and you
develop good friendships and and you you
share ideas, talk ideas. It's important
that it's a two-way street. Um, I call
it the tripod. When I like something
and then my analyst likes it and then
somebody who I really respect also likes
it. That's three legs of the stool can
really help the conviction.
>> What have you learned about shaping the
products that you offer your investors
across the history of the firm? It's not
just one monolithic structure anymore.
>> There's there's several things that if
I'm an investor and I want to give you
money, I can there's a couple ways I can
do that.
>> How did you arrive at those things? And
and how do you how could you turn that
experience into um advice for other
investors that are trying to provide
their LPs with the right set of options?
>> For the first 15 years, it was a long
short fund and we you know, you want to
be focused and if you defocus that can
be hard. So we we grew that and we got
that to the scale that we wanted to.
We're 20 years old, maybe 10 years in,
people started to ask for a long only
product. And so in 2020, we we launched
uh the long only fund. So we're 6 years
on that. And um that's now larger than
the long short. The bulk of the assets
are in these two. In maybe 2015, we we
formalized that we might be doing
privates. And so we gave investors the
option to opt in or opt out and you
could do 15% or 25%. So, but we didn't
break the seal on the privates until
2020. In 2021,
we offered um a hybrid fund that could
be 80%
uh into privates. sort of similar
approach but if you wanted more exposure
to privates. Um and then very recently
we launched the whale rock meggaap tech
fund and we just think there's a huge
structural underweight of the largest
tech companies in the world because a we
also realize that a a lot of our
performance over the years was from some
of the largest companies whether it be
Apple or Amazon or Tesla and and people
just it's hard to overweight these to
the to the amount. And so a lot of our
largest pools of capital endowments or
what have you, they realize they they
have been massively underweight, the
largest tech companies in the world for
the last because they only have, you
know, they have a lot of privates. They
don't have a ton of public and then
maybe half the public is international.
And then of their public bucket, they
don't want to they there's a belief that
there's no alpha in large cap. So they
underweight large cap and they have a
lot of small and mid managers that are
stock pickers because it's intuitive
that large cap can't have alpha. Um and
then in their hedge fund portfolio, even
if it's long bias, they're not going to
have 15% and Nvidia and all these other
things. And we realize that there's a
huge that this people are worried that
there's these big companies. This is
just a product of the digital economy in
that, you know, in tech, the leader
usually grows bigger and wins and
develops very high market share quickly
and and there's great competitive
advantages and and they're also selling
around the globe. So, this is going to
lead to massive profit pools and massive
market caps and it's just going to
happen into the future. And so, most
endowments are betting against this.
They're they're because they're
completely underweight this. And finally
somebody came to us and said you know
what should we do which index we got to
and I'm on the board of Hamilton College
and they were trying on their investment
committee they were trying to figure out
this and so we kept on hearing it and
finally uh one of our clients was like
we said we'll we'll do this for you
because there's a lot of alpha to be had
and the mag 7 or the fang or whatever
it's going to be different and you know
in 2022 they all rallied but like last
year they were very divergent and this
year they're down and so we created the
the Whale Rock Mega Cap Tech Fund which
is the top 30 the universe is the top 30
market caps globally and then we pick
you know the 12 or 13 that are the best
and I think there's tremendous alpha in
the largest cap because if you think
about it a small cap it just takes one
person to to figure out it's good and
move it up but it takes a hundred
people, 100 diversified PMs to realize
Google's not a loser, it's a winner. And
can we figure that out before
95% of those generalist PMs
do it? And you know, we've been able to
do it.
>> We like your odds in that.
>> Yeah, we like your odds in that. And so
there is alpha to be had there. And then
as an asset category, it's great because
these companies by definition have
wonderful modes and maybe they're not
the super S-curve, but sometimes they
are. I mean, Nvidia sure is, and TSM is
really levered to it, and Heinix is
extremely levered to it, and ASML is
levered to it. So, it's a great um so
that's a new we're four months into that
one. And so the right way maybe to think
about it, it it it sort of sounds like
really what you've built is a research
machine to understand the world through
the lens of companies and that the thing
you're constantly trying to improve is
that research machine and then the way
that you would then express that through
products is multiplied. But if I was to
try to understand Whale Rock, it would
be to investigate the research machine
first and foremost. We call it the whale
rock learning machine and it's a group
of 10 highly experienced individuals
that you know Warren Buffett reads books
and we read books and we read blogs and
we but we're also in tech you got to go
out and talk to people. So we do 2500
3,000 facetoface meetings with
management teams and you know Mer and
Buffett talk about compounding
knowledge. We've been compounding that
knowledge for 20 years. you know,
there's changes to the team, but broadly
there's a lot of um consistency to it.
Um Andrew and Michael have been with me
for 19 and 18 years and the average
experience level on the team is 10 or so
years and that includes some of the new
newer people. And uh yeah, that research
engine can support all these all these
products and it's the same people that
do publiclix and the private. So, we're
not going to scour the world and turn
over every A B. But when we see
something that fits into our system,
we're able to act on it.
>> It's so much fun to do this with you.
When I do this, I ask the same
traditional closing question of
everybody. What is the kindest thing
that anyone's ever done for you?
>> Well, I got to say it's definitely my
father who, you know, I was super lucky.
My father um graduated Cornell a double
e electrical engineering, pivoted to
Wall Street and um uh had a great career
at Goldman Sachs and he was um he ran
corporate finance in the 80s and then
ran private equity as chairman in the
90s and uh he was just whips smart but
he he had such humility and was such a
great gentleman and uh when I started
Whale Rock, you know, friends and
family, he was the first call, but he
said, you know, I've been at Goldman for
for 41 years. How about I come and join
you? I'll be the gray hair. I'll be the
oversight. I'll be the chairman. You do
what you do. You build the firm in uh
Boston. Build the team, run the money,
I'll help raise some money. And we got
to work together for 6 years until he
passed away in 2011. But I just feel so
lucky to have worked with him. You know,
it's not easy running a fund. We never
raised our voice. And he was just an
amazing mentor to so many people. And
when he passed away,
um I got so many letters from people who
said, "Your father was just such an
influence on me. He was such a
gentleman. He was such a great mentor to
me." And so I just feel so lucky uh to
have worked with him. And if I could be
half the person that he is, I'd be
completely winning. And
>> how did he do that? How did he What was
his method? Why did so many people say
that?
>> Um
I don't know. He He just He was He was
modest. He was whipsmart. He was wise.
He was also known as a um a great
investor, which isn't the most common
thing at a lot of investment banks. He
also was on their commitments committee
and kept him out of a lot of tougher
situations and yeah he was very warm and
he people would could go into his office
with with with problems and he handled
it handled it with grace and um whether
it's a personal problem or a work issue
or what have you and he just had this
soft way and he also had a great sense
of humor.
>> Lucky.
>> Yeah. I'm so lucky. So [music] Alex,
thanks so much for your time.
>> Thanks so much.
Your finance team isn't losing money on
big mistakes. It's [music] leaking
through a thousand tiny decisions
nobody's watching. Ramp puts guardrails
on spending before it happens. Real-time
limits, automatic rules, zero
firefighting. Try it at ramp.com/invest.
[music]
As your business grows, Vant scales with
you, automating compliance and giving
you a single source of truth for
security and risk. Learn more at
vanta.com/invest. [music]
Ridgeline is redefining asset management
technology as a true partner, not just a
software vendor. They've helped firms 5x
[music] and scale, enabling faster
growth, smarter operations, and a
competitive edge. Visit
ridgelineapps.com [music]
to see what they can unlock for your
firm.
Every investment firm is unique, and
generic AI doesn't understand your
process. Rogo does. It's an AI platform
built specifically for Wall Street,
connected to your data, understanding
your process, and producing real
outputs. Check them out at
rogo.ai/invest.
The best AI and software companies from
OpenAI to cursor to Perplexity use work
OS to become enterprise ready overnight,
not in months. Visit works.com to skip
the unglamorous [music]
infrastructure work and focus on your
product.